And welcome back! In the previous videos we
talked about some of the most common a HTML tags
and how the HTML document
is read by the browser.
However we've missed one critical feature of HTML,
and if we go back to our diagram here, that we
should remember from the first section the HTML
file gets sent to us but the power of HTML is
in its ability to link to other document.
So if I go back here to our website it's a simple one
page website but I can't really click on 'fuji',
or 'apple', or 'banana'.
It doesn't link to anything.
There must be a HTML tag that
we can use for that right?
Well yes there is.
It's called a anchor tag.
So an anchor tag is very easy just an 'a'.
And this anchor tag has something called an 'href' which
is an attribute and it's the hypertext reference.
So in this 'href' you'll be
able to link to something.
Let's close this 'a' tag.
An 'a' tag has an opening and closing tag.
And if I save this and refresh the page, well nothing
happens because you need something in the anchor
tag.
So let's do "New Page".
I save that, I refresh.
And we have "New Page" here.
Now if I click this, nothing happens. But you can see
that it has the link, and the mouse changes images,
so it's clickable but nothing happens.
Well that's because we need to
specify where we want the link to go.
Now let's think about this if
we want to link to a new page.
We don't really have another new
page, if you remember
We only have 'index.html'.
Wouldn't it be great if there was
another file that we can link to?
Well let's create another file.
So let's open up Sublime Text,
actually. I'm going to say 'File' 'New
File', I'm going to save this as 'newpage'
And we're going to save it to
desktop and see over here how,
when I went to Sublime Text,
It's now a 'Plain Text'?
I need to make sure that this is an HTML file, so I
can just do 'newpage.html'. Save, and Sublime Text
automatically adjusts to the 'HTML'.
So again I can type in that short command, 'html' and (then
press) 'Tab', that comes with Sublime Text, and let's do
the title 'New Page' and the 'body'
We can just do a header [h1] that
says, "This is the new page!"
If I save this... great! we have a new page. And if I go
to my desktop here, you see that I have 'newpage.html'
and 'index.html'.
So how do we link these two together?
Well it's very simple.
We open up sublime again
and within 'index.html'.
The 'href' can now say we're linking to 'newpage.html'.
Let's save that and let's give it a try.
Refresh the page, click,
And "This is a new page!" awesome.
But to go back we have to press the back symbol,
so let's link back to the original file again.
We can do this by 'p' tag, which is for 'paragraph'
- I'm going to say 'Go Back'. Close that tag [/p].
But, hold on a minute.
I need an anchor tag, right?
If I just save this, and refresh the
page, I say, 'Go Back'.
But what if you really, really want this to be a
paragraph, or let's say you want this to be an 'h2' but
you also want it to be an anchor tag.
Well that's very simple you just
wrap it in an anchor tag [a].
And just so it's nice and clear,
we're going to have the nice spacing here.
And again an anchor tag must have an 'href', which tells
us where to go. And we want to go to 'index.html'
So, 'index.html', save, and refresh.
Let's go back.
Let's go to the next one, and back.
So this is the power that comes with
HTML, this ability to link to other pages.
And yeah, we can have text, we can have lists, we can
have images, but the true power is in this linking
ability. In the next episode
we're going to expand on this.
I'll see you in that one. Bye-bye